# Black Jack Game

# Description
This app is a simplified Blackjack game. The game logic starts with a shuffling of the object Deck which is an array list of object Cards multiplied by iterating, via loop, through all Card's fields enumerated by Rank and Suit to get the standard deck size of 52 Cards. Then the Objects Dealer and Player are dealt two cards each through Dealer's "deal" method. One of the Dealer's Card values is hidden, and long as neither Hands (list of Cards dealt to each) equals 21 or over in integer value, the logic continues. The Player will be prompted via scanner to enter a one or two; the input initiates an if statement where if the user enters "1", another card will be dealt to them from the Deck. If the user types "2", the loop these two options are contained in will break and no card will be dealt. Then the Dealer will be initiated into a loop of dealing itself Cards (if originally the hand is under 17) until 17 or under 21 is reached. At this point the dealer will reveal the original card dealt to Dealer's value, and the winner will be printed out in the console. If at any point during this process, the Dealer or Player reach a Hand of exactly 21 in value, the game will be stopped and a "Draw" message will be printed; the same will happen if either Hand goes above 21, except the console will print "Bust" to whoever's hand is above 21. 

# Tech Used
This app makes extensive use of objects and their intertwining methods. The Card object, for instance, has fields of two enumerators listing out rank and suit, respectively. Then, the object Deck is the next level up, taking the fields of Card and putting them in a for each loop to iterate to an arraylist of Cards. 
Inheritance was observed when creating the Player and Dealer classes. Player was set up for all the methods of displaying hand and adding cards dealt to the hand, and Dealer extended all of these and used slightly different methods for displaying the Dealer's hand, since the first card had to be hidden (or face down). The entirety of this project required constant "reaching into" objects from seperate objects to utilize or add on to their methods in order to make this game. The actual game logic in the launch method in main is mostly just a combination of while loops and if else if statements that was far easier to build. 

# Lessons Learned
This project gave me a confidence in object oriented program for the first time. The crisscross of what method is where and how to call it is a newfound pleasure that makes the head ache. It will take a bit more time before I'm completely, or at least mostly, able to conceptualize how all the objects string together through their methods, but this app was a giant step in that direction and really made sense to me. On top of this, while avoiding arrogance, I feel a strong command of Java basics like while, for, and even for each loops (the latter of which has been a bit mind numbing until now) and if statements and constructing large, for me, swaths of logic.